# Users

## Yaml structure

This document tries to guide the users in understanding the possibilities of dCNiOS.

- Some fields need to be defined for the main section that represents a NiFi instance:
  - Nifi credentials of the instance.
  - The ProcessGroups that are going to be created.
  - The connection between those ProcessGroups.
I


### Nifi credentials:

This section indicates the Nifi credentials:
- Endpoint
- User
- Password

```
nifi:
  endpoint: https://158.42.104.43
  user: <user>
  password: <pass>
```

### ProcessGroups

Nifi allows saving the behavior of some processes to create a small workflow. This is called ProcessGroup. dCNiOS uses those ProcessGroup. It is necessary to fill in the variables to create custom workflows adapted for each use case.

Some ProcessGroups operate as Source:

- dCache
- KAFKA
- S3

Other operate as Destination:

- OSCAR


Inside a ProcessGroup, a subsection `components` has been created to change the configuration of a process. It changes the scheduled time, seconds between executions (ratio execution), and execution node, where you can choose which node is going to be executed, in all nodes or the primary node.

```       
    components:
    - name: GetFile
      seconds: 2
      node: (ALL | PRIMARY)
```

### Connections

This section defines the connection between the ProcessGroups using identifier names.

```
- from: dcachelistening
  to: edgan3
```

### Example

```
nifi:
  endpoint: https://<>
  user: <>
  password: <>
  dcache:
    - name: dcachelistening
      endpoint: <>/api/v1
      user: <>
      password: <>
      folder: /Users/slangarita/itwin/input
      statefile: statess1.txt
  oscar:
    - name: edgan3
      endpoint: <>
      service: <>>
      token: <>
  connection:
    - from: dcachelistening
      to: edgan3

```


## Manage the dataflow with commands

Once the dataflow is defined in the YAML file, it is time to create it with the command:

``` bash
python dcnios-cli.py apply -f description.yaml
```

To start or stop all the ProcessGroup defined in the YAML:

``` bash
python dcnios-cli.py [start | stop] -f description.yaml
```

To delete all the ProcessGroup defined in the YAML:

``` bash
python dcnios-cli.py delete -f description.yaml
```
### Change Schedule time
A command has been created to change the time of a process between execution:

``` bash
python dcnios-cli.py changeSchedule --host={nifi-endpoint} \
--user={user} --password={pass}  \
--processGroup={processGroupName} --component={defined_in_template} \
--seconds=10
```


